PR #21 Reformatted (#128)
mongodb/docs-meta: source/style-guide/markup/inline.txt

=============
Inline Markup
=============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Inline markup, also known as roles, specify how the enclosed text should be
interpreted or rendered.

> Learn more about roles from the `{+docutils+} documentation <http://www.docutils.org/docs/ref/rst/roles.html>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about roles, see the `{+docutils+} documentation 
<http://www.docutils.org/docs/ref/rst/roles.html>`__.
```

> {+sphinx+} provides an extended set of roles. Learn more about these roles
> from the `Sphinx documentation <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{+sphinx+} provides an extended set of roles. To learn more about these roles,
see the `Sphinx documentation <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html>`__.
```

Font Formatting Roles
---------------------

> These roles control how the font of the enclosed text is rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These roles control how the font of the enclosed text renders.
```

> Learn more about when to use these roles from the style guide section on
> :ref:`<text-formatting>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about when to use these roles, see the style guide section on
:ref:`<text-formatting>`.
```

> - To **strongly emphasize** or **bold** text, use two asterisks on

Reviewer 2: [question]

Is there anywhere in the style guide that provides guidance on when to use bold and italics formatting? I understand the purpose of this section to focus on how to format text, but maybe in future work we should add a bit more context as to when and why to use each.

Author: Yes, [it's referenced in lines 24-25](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-meta/pull/128/files#diff-4775599d9eec9251fcfced3eecfd751a556fbc4aa4e814b345ce84429afc2d07R24-R25) above which is an addition I made to the content of the old PR. I think the "markup/" path was intended only to show how to write the rST.

Reviewer 2: Got it, thanks.

  both sides of the text.

  .. code-block:: rst

     **bold**

- To *emphasize* or *italicize* text, use two asterisks on both sides
  of the text.

  .. code-block:: rst

     *italic*

- To specify ``monospace`` text, use two backticks on both sides of the text.

  .. code-block:: rst

     ``monospace``

Use the following guidelines to avoid errors in font formatting roles:

- Don't start or end markup with whitespace.

  .. list-table::
     :header-rows: 1
     :widths: 50 50

     * - Use
       - Avoid

     * -

         .. code-block:: rst

            **bold code**

       -

         .. code-block:: rst
            :copyable: false

            ** bold code**

- Don't apply more than one type of markup to text.

  .. list-table::
     :header-rows: 1
     :widths: 50 50

     * - Use
       - Avoid

     * -

         .. code-block:: rst

            ``bold code``

       -

         .. code-block:: rst
            :copyable: false

            **``bold code``**

> - When applying a text formatting role to the middle of a word, use a backslash

Reviewer: **Style:** See [Clarify Gerunds](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/writing/clarify-gerunds-participles/).

```suggestion
- When you apply a text formatting role to the middle of a word, use a backslash
```
